# IASC 2P02 - Assignment 2 Blog Post: True Human Interaction

  Kirschenbaum, Alvarado and Ramsay have argued that digital humanities research should not attempt to combine the sciences with the humanities perspective, since these two realms are entirely incompatible; however, I personally believe that the ultimate true human behavior, can only be studied after combining scientific observation with subjective experiences. I would even go so far as to say, that, the current digital culture is proof of the fact that human psychology and interaction can be analyzed with a combination of both scientific, and non-quantitative/subjective data. For the purposes of this assignment, I will be analyzing two main pieces of evidence: Firstly, I will be referencing an article posted on “Psychology Today”, in regards to social media interaction, secondly I will outline a Voyant Tool comparison of Justin Bieber’s current online popularity as opposed to his past reputation, and finally, I will be analyzing the growth and evolution of the human language in the digital sphere, a familiar topic of discussion from the Week 1 reading.

  Firstly, in the article on Psychology Today, the writer Liraz Margalit asserts that human interaction is based entirely on non-verbal cues and this makes online interactions devoid of emotions to an extent, “The extra effort involved in face-to-face interactions can be spared in online interactions that are founded on minimal or constrained social cues; most of these signals can be summed up in emoticons or punctuation. Hence, it is easier to hide our emotions behind an email, a Facebook post or a tweet. These platforms help people project any image they want; they can be whoever and whatever they want to be.” (Psychology Today, Margalit, Paragraph 9). Our day-to-day interactions involve hand gestures, eye-contact and overall body language signals that indicate a certain degree of emotional involvement to both the speaker and the listener (thereby, in most conversations, when one person is speaking, the other is usually silent). These days however, interactions are mostly taking place online: dating apps, online recruiters in the corporate world, forum boards and other social media platforms are primarily redefining the methods in which human beings interact with each other. Although online interactions are mainly devoid of emotion, the digital world has managed to revolutionize politics as we can observe with the infamous Wikileaks scandals, that have become a major topic of controversy over the last decade. There are millions of political forums available online, in which individuals from all over the world can express their opinions and research in hopes to share knowledge and offer a more diverse range on certain subjects. As I mentioned in my thesis earlier, we can see how a predominantly scientific platform (the computer, and more specifically the World Wide Web) has managed to allow users to influence the emotions and opinions of others, and in some cases, even find their true soulmates through this new kind of “digital culture”.

  Secondly, I would like to revisit one of the readings from the very first week of this semester, “What Is Digital Humanities and What Is It Doing In English Departments?”. In this article, there is a paragraph which states, “So what is digital humanities, and what is it doing in English departments? The answer to the latter portion of the question is easier. I can think of some half a dozen reasons why English departments have historically been hospitable settings for this kind of work. First, after numeric input, text has been by far the most tractable data type for computers to manipulate. Unlike images, audio, video, and so on, there is a long tradition of text-based data processing that was within the capabilities of even some of the earliest computer systems and that has for decades fed research in fields like stylistics, linguistics, and author attribution studies, all heavily associated with English departments. Second, of course, there is the long association between computers and composition, almost as long and just as rich in its lineage. Third is the pitch-perfect convergence between the intense conversations around editorial theory and method in the 1980s and the widespread means to implement electronic archives and editions very soon after;(...)” (Kirschenbaum, Paragraph 16). In a lot of ways, the online word has its own unique language. For example, certain slang words such as: “lol”, which stands for laugh out loud, or “omg”, which stands for oh my God are small factors which showcase that the digital world has brought forth a new kind of language, specifically catered towards online communications. On many virtual role-playing multiplayer games such as League of Legends, words like “Gg” (acronym for “good game”) are used within the context of the gameplay as well. Another interesting topic of discussion would be the user names that many people decide to use as their online aliases; it is rather common for users on reddit and YouTube to create usernames based on their interests; in other words, an individual who is a big fan of the popular television series, “F.R.I.E.N.D.S.” could potentially use a username such as “friendsfan123”, and this in turn, creates a certain impression of their identity. The impression in the hypothetical, aforementioned example would be that this person truly values “Friends”, and this television series has been a major part of their memories, perhaps even shaping some aspects of their personality traits as well. The use of language, numbers and online slang words are creating a new kind of digital culture altogether.

  Finally, I decided to analyze the comment sections of two different videos: The first video is Justin bieber’s “Baby”, which currently sits at about 10 million dislikes on YouTube. One of the interesting things I noticed after pasting 3 pages of the comments of this video to Voyant, was that one of the most popular words of this video was “dislikes”: <!--	Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org).
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol)
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise
it depends on this server.
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: -->
<iframe style='width: 100%; height: 800px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/?panels=cirrus%2Creader%2Ctrends%2Csummary%2Ccontexts&corpus=715326d85d5b5e51c0c51b59ea14ea22'></iframe>

For the second video, I analyzed Justin Bieber’s recent hit single, “What Do You Mean”:https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=0fb3d34ee0fd355f46e134587ae5a7c0&panels=cirrus,reader,trends,summary,contexts What Do You Mean was more well-liked by the public, because at the time, Bieber was more mature and the audiences were willing to accept perceiving him in the light of a grown adult. In the song “Baby” Justin was a young child and as a result, he received a lot of hate, primarily from males who were not willing to appreciate his talent, rather ridicule him for his sense of childishness. The purpose of this analysis, was to showcase the relationship between numerical data (the dislikes ratio) to the sort of reactions/opinions from the public. As it is clearly evident, in the song “Baby”, it was expected that the term “dislikes” would be popular because the video has a staggering amount of dislikes, and consequently, a perceived negative reaction for the most part.
